Some of the most beautiful and powerful cars
on the road today are assembled in England.
And though we have long since declared our
independence, this is the kind of British
command no red blooded American could refuse.
Meet the all-new, 495-horsepower Jaguar F-Type
V8 S.F-TYPE-0435Jaguar's resurgence continues.
Already stocked with a stable of sexy speed
machines, the one car that has eluded the
brand for some time is a true sports car.
But with the introduction of the aluminum-laden
F-Type, that void is immediately filled.
When you shop the all-supercharged model range,
you could opt for a 340 horsepower V6, step
up to the S variant of the same engine raising
the ante to 380 horsepower or go all in with
this fire-breathing V8 S model.
But for your wallet's sake, just don't drive
this one first because once you do there's
no looking back.Though there are three different
engine outputs for the F-Type, this supercharged
V8 is top-dog.
So if you like the feeling of instantaneous
torque mounting ridiculous acceleration then
you're absolutely going to love this V8 S
model.With a starting price of almost $93,000
this kind of awesomeness doesn't come cheaply,
but the power hungry and speed freaks will
have their F-Type in no other way.
No matter if you use the Dynamic Launch Mode
or simply mash and hang on, this Jag hammers
through acceleration runs with shocking urgency.
The company lists a 0-to-60mph time of 4.2-seconds
but that's conservative.
Getting there in fewer than 4 is not a problem.
With 460 foot pounds of torque working through
a ZF 8-speed Quickshift Automatic and electronically
controlled limited slip, these 20" Pirelli
P Zeros -- 295 wide in the rear -- have a
monumental task of getting this car to stick.
And because it's been really cold here and
the tires like warm, dry pavement, I often
used the winter mode until things warmed up.
And it's not until then that the F-Type is
ready to make a gentleman's hand shake with
the driver -- instilling the needed confidence
to charge through the turns and exit with
ear rattling authority.
Steering is quick and reactive as the paddle's
fire off the next gear.
And the amply padded sport seats with adjustable
side bolsters keep you situated and comfortable.
The Adaptive Dynamics Suspension -- a double
wishbone setup -- keeps the F-Type aggressive
though compliant, not quite as forgiving as
an XK but closer than you'd think.
And a configurable Dynamic mode allows for
as much tire smoking oversteer playtime as
you can handle.When I think back to some of
the most memorable sounding cars I've driven,
like a Z06 or an AMG this F-Type has got to
be right up there as one of the most bodacious.
With this active selective exhaust system
you're just a button push away from complete
craziness.It pops and spits as you let off
the throttle -- just magnificent.
But as a good roadster should, the F-Type
is unobtrusive to top-down conversations.
Mine is also equipped with the much appreciated
heated seats and steering wheel and as you
would expect from a Jaguar -- it completely
oozes with cool -- with features like these
pop out door handles and disappearing vents.
But sorry, no telescoping gear shifter for
this car.
With a host of options this fully loaded F-Type
V8 S is priced at $102,770 - perhaps the only
legitimate F-Type criticism I can dole out.
It even returns very respectable gas mileage
of 16mpg city/23mpg highway.
Though white would be my last choice, it certainly
has the look, more power than you could ever
need, a soundtrack sports car lovers drool
over and a sports car drive that's the real
deal.